# Week Three Journal Entry

**Instructions**: In your journal.md for this week, think about all of the little decisions you have to make about the material as you clean and transform it. What is the value of/for historians (regular historians) showing their work, as opposed to, or in contrast to, what digital historians have to do? Where is the scholarly value in showing your work - and contrast this with how you’ve written history to date.

## What is the value of/for historians (regular historians) showing their work, as opposed to, or in contrast to, what digital historians have to do?

Obviously showing your work is important, no matter why kind of historian you are, but the reasons differ for each type of historian. 

In the case of "regular" historians, I believe showing their work helps the community to grow and learn. It is beneficial in allowing people to understand how one came to their conclusion. After a small bit of reserach, I found this quote that I feel sums up the importance of documenting one's wok as a historian, "By comparing past and current events, historians can create a valuable commentary about current affairs, potentially allowing them to predict what events might transpire in the future". Properly documenting research and findings can help people stop the bad parts of history from repeating itself, and fully understanding how we ended up at a certain place in the first place may help people stop it from happening again. Sharing how people arrive at certain ideas fuels others to further explore as well. By sharing the process and showing how data and facts were analyze to get to the end point, others may be able to make important findings by learning from the information shared by the historian community. 

Admittedly, "regular historians" share a much differnt version of showing their work than what digital historians have to do. The main (and very obvious) difference between the two types of historians is the digital aspect of the later. Where regualr historians can share their findings, process of analysis and various conclusions, digital historians have that wth the added aspect of whichever electronic tools they use as well. Whether that is represeting data through vizualizations, filtering information using various code or developing prorams to better understand physical hitorical artefacts for further research. On top of sharing how they got their information, there is added value for digital historians to share how they leveraged technology in their wrk. Similar to what I said earlier, sharing their 
work may inspire others in the community to grow and develop more in the field.

## Where is the scholarly value in showing your work - and contrast this with how you’ve written history to date.

I have mentioned it slightly in the first question, but I believe one of the most major benefits is again the collective growth of others in the community and the community itself. I feel especially in the name of history, constant development of findings and research in all aspects of the history of this earth and its people. We now have access to more innovative and useful technology than we ever have had aceess to, allowing historians to make discoveries that were never possible before. If sharing your work allows someone else to discover something using your methods, that has great value for everyone. Knowledge is power, and if we can help others gain more knowledge, that in itself is a very important reason to share our work.

In regards to how I've written history to date, I will be honest in saying I don't quite understand this. I myself do not have too much experience writing history but I have never really had this mentality I have spoken of. I feel I ahve always been pushed to add supporting evidence to my writin to back up my conclusions, but I never fully explaining how I got to the final point. I highlighted it earlier this week in one of the assigned readings, but I don't think I have ever spent much time closely analyzing the process of how I arrive at the final product or concept. The author of this week's articles said somthing along the lines of accomplishing a task and having the process of completing said task prove his research rather than the end result. That whole idea is somehting I think should be more impactful in my future writing. The process of getting to the end point is as important if not more important than that final result, as the process is what others can use to discover and analyze their own data.

